HTTP

Generally http stands for hypertext transfer protocol and it is used in client server communication. By using http user sends 
the request to the server and the server sends the response to the user. There are several stages of development of http but we 
focus mainly on http1 which created on 1997 and http2 which in 2015

http1
http1 is a first walkie talkie for web browsers and servers. It uses plain text messages to talk to each other. THis makes it easy to
understand but not fast.

It provide one connection at a time. Think of it like a single walkie alkie channel. if one message is taking a long time everything else has to wait.
It is simple but not super efficient. text messages are bulky for computer to handle. Plus messages asking for web pages often have similar
infor, but http1 does not shrink that down very well

despite these limitations http1 was a game changer/ it allowed web browser and servers to chat back and forth much faster than before this paved the way for the web
as we know it

It provide persistent connection. imagine having mutliple walkie talkie channels open at once. this lets browsers send more than one message
without waiting for each reply
browsers could send a bunch of messaages in a row, hoping for faster replies. however, this was not always reliable.

while http1 did a great job, newer versions like ttp2 came along with even better features. think of http2 as a fancy walie talkie system with mulitple channels, uses a more efficient
languages and avoids repating info. this makes webbrowsing much faster today.

in conclusion, http1 was crucial stepping stone for the web. it may not be the most high tech tool anymore, but understanding it helps us
appreciate how the web has become so fast and smooth


http2
It is a supercharged walkie talkie system for web browsers and servers. It usess a special, shorter language that computers understand better, and it can handle mutliple conversaations
at once

In multitasking, imagine that having tons of talkie walkie channels open, all working together. Even if one conversation takes a while like a big image download others can zip right through 
no more waiting in line

In http1 did not shrink down similar info in messages http2 has a built in codebook to remember those common bits and shrink them way down making messages even smaller

Server push the server being super helpful and sending along any extra infor you might need before you evene ask this can speed things up even more

It helps to faster downloads. picture downloading abunch of files at once, instead of one by one. thats the power of multiplexing

it reduced wait time. no more waiting for slow download to hold up the whole whole page. with mulitple channels other things can fly thought

In help for smoother browsing faster loading times mean a smoother more enjoyable web experience for everyone

In modern days, http2 is the most common way for browsers and servers to chat. it like the upgraded super powered walkie talkie system everyone uses for the web

in the nutshel http2 is a big leap forward from http1 it makes web browsing way faster and smoother by tlking more efficiently and handling mulitple conversaations at once. thats the magic of the 
modern web.



Object and internal representation in js

Objects are core part of js. think of them as containers that hold different pieces of information. these containers are made up of pairs: a key and value. for example you could have an object representing 
a person with keys like name age and city and their corresponding values


storing Objects
when you create an object, js puts it in a special memory are called the heap. this is where data is stored flexibly, meaning it can be change size as needed. instead of directly storing the object in a variable.
the variable holds a kind of address pointing to the object location in heap. this is why changes to an object are seen everywhere its used

inside object
the properties are key value pairs. you can access them using a dot or square brackets
the prototype are every object has a prent called a prototype this allows objects to inherit properites and methods from other objects.

example
const person={
    firstname :"john",
    lastname="doe",
    age:30;
}

In real world, creating data structures storing complex information, like aproduct catalog or a user profile. 
building user interfaces representing elements ona web page and their interactios.
organizing code, grouping related functions and data together for better modularity
asynchrounous programming, handling callbacks and promises
